#summary Libraries and other programs used by Ocrivist
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Dependencies =

Ocrivist makes use of a number of Linux libraries and other programs. Many of these are installed by default on most Linux distributions, some may be installed using the distribution's package manager and a few will need to be either downloaded from the Ocrivist Project's Downloads section or compiled to suit the distribution you are using and the libraries available on it.
 
== Libraries ==
  * [Dependencies#libtiff.so.4 libtiff.so.4]

  * [Dependencies#liblept.so.3 liblept.so.3]

  * [Dependencies#libtesseract.so.3 tesseract.so.3]

  * [Dependencies#libsane.so.1 libsane.so.1]


== Programs ==

  * [Dependencies#Djvulibre Djvulibre] binaries: djvumake djvused djvm djvudump ddjvu c44 cjb2 

  * [Dependencies#GNUAspell GNU Aspell]
----

=== libtiff.so.4 ===

*libtiff* can usually be installed using your package manager. If you need to compile liblept or libocrivist for your system, make sure that the *libtiff development* package is also installed (libtiff4-dev on Debian-based systems, libtiff-devel on RPM-based systems)
----
 
===liblept.so.3===
*liblept.so.3* is required by both the ocrivist program and by libtesseract. It can be compiled and installed after downloading [http://code.google.com/p/leptonica/downloads/detail?name=leptonica-1.69.tar.gz leptonica v.1.69] from the [http://code.google.com/p/leptonica/ Leptonica Project]. See [Dependencies#Compiling_and_installing_libraries below] for guidance on compiling.

A precompiled version of liblept.so.3 is available in the [https://googledrive.com/host/0B20R2_1XVoDsTml3ejdmbXJiMXc/Linux/ Linux downloads folder]. This was compiled on Debian Squeeze and may not work on more recent distributions unless libpng12 is installed. On systems with libtiff.so.5 installed it may work if a link /usr/lib/libtiff.so.4 is created, pointing to libtiff.so.5.
----
===libtesseract.so.3===
*libtesseract.so.3* provides the OCR functionality in Ocrivist and is compiled from [http://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/downloads/detail?name=tesseract-ocr-3.02.02.tar.gz Tesseract-ocr 3.02]. See [Dependencies#Compiling_and_installing_libraries below] for guidance on compiling.

A precompiled version of libtesseract.so.3 is available in the [https://googledrive.com/host/0B20R2_1XVoDsTml3ejdmbXJiMXc/Linux/ Linux downloads folder]. This was compiled on Debian Squeeze and may not work on other distributions. Appropriate language data files should be [http://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/downloads/list downloaded], extracted and installed in /usr/local/share/tessdata/
----
===libsane.so.1===
*libsane.so.1* is installed by default on most distributions.
----
===GNUAspell===
*GNU Aspell* is often installed by default but if not, it is probably available from your distribution repository.

GNU Aspell is _not_ essential for Ocrivist to run, but is needed to be able to spellcheck a scanned document after OCR.
----
===Djvulibre===
The *djvulibre* suite provides a number of programs used for manipulating and creating _djvu_ format files. It is usually available from your distribution repositories or from [http://djvu.sourceforge.net/ Sourceforge].

The djvulibre programs are _not_ essential for Ocrivist to run, but without them it will not be possible to export Ocrivist projects to DjVu format.

==Compiling and installing libraries===
*Important:* both liblept and libtesseract will compile without libtiff but the ocrivist program will not work correctly if this happens. Most Linux distributions install libtiff by default but the *development* package also needs to be installed before attempting to compile a program or library that links to libtiff.


To compile and install *liblept*, first ensure that the libtiff development files are installed, then  download [http://code.google.com/p/leptonica/downloads/detail?name=leptonica-1.69.tar.gz leptonica v.1.69] and extract all the files to a convenient location. Using a terminal console, *cd* into the *leptonica* folder and enter 

{{{./configure}}}

If no errors occur you should eventually get a message telling you that you can now compile the package by typing 

{{{make}}} 

If all goes well you can then then use root privileges (*su* or *sudo*)  and install the library by typing 

{{{make install}}} 

*libtesseract* is compiled and installed using the same procedure.

Note that *liblept* and *libtiff* must be installed before you attempt to compile *libtesseract*

 